CS 5001
Fall 2025
Sherman Tabor
Final Project


Design Doc


My memory game project includes (1) a main() function within memory_game.py,
(2) a Game class and object, (3) a Card class and card objects, (4) a Quit Button class and object,
(5) a setup.py file with helper functions, and (6) a gameplay.py file with additional helper functions.


The game object carries most of the weight. When the user begins, they are prompted to enter
a user name, configuration, and a number of cards. These inputs are used to build a game object, which implements
the correct number of card objects, and then stores the user's guesses and matches as they play. The game object
uses the guesses, matches, and the front image of flipped cards to call helper functions in gameplay.py,
which determine how the game should proceed.


The game object also keeps turtle running until the user has won or quit. Either winning or quitting trigger
the closeout method on the game object. Winning also first triggers several other methods within the game object
to save and store the winner's username and score.


ADDITIONAL CHOICES:
(1) User can select the number of cards to play and the configuration file. In order to not frustrate the user
    if they input something invalid, the program will not prompt for re-entry but will default to the standard
    card deck and use 8 cards (or the closest of 8, 10, or 12 if the user input an invalid integer).

(2) Leaderboards are unique to configuration and number of cards. Someone playing with 12 cards should not be
    competing against someone playing with 12, for example. Also, some decks are harder than others (e.g., my
    'Winston' deck is much harder than the standard card deck). If a configuration has not been played before,
    the program will automatically write a new leaderboard file.

(3) One known limitation to choice (2) above is that the cards a user plays with are limited by the config file.
    For example, in the 8 card version of the standard deck, the 8 cards will ALWAYS be the same, because they are
    pulled from the config file. I chose to do this for the integrity of the leaderboard and the simplicity
    of having the config file drive much of the game's logic.


CUSTOM CONFIGURATION:
User can customize their card deck. In order to do so, they must first write a configuration file in exactly the
following format: '{custom_name}_config_{num_cards}.txt'. The custom_name must not contain any spaces.
The file must contain one line each for the front images of each card: '{image_name}.gif'. The configuration file
must be placed in the config directory, and there must be a .gif image for each card referenced in the configuration
file in the images directory. The user will be prompted to choose a configuration. To select their custom configuration,
they should input whatever they chose for {custom_name} above.


KNOWN ISSUE:
Finally, there is a known error that I am unable to fix. The game object's closeout method throws a memory
error that I believe has to do with Turtle. I tried to fix it by ensuring that there is only one screen to
close out, and spent a while reading through documentation to find other solutions, but have not been
successful. The error reads "alloc: invalid block: 0x1059788c0: c0 5" whenever the game closes out.